0.Simple web stack

https://imgur.com/a/YRtnOsH

The following diagram represents a single server web infrastructure with a LAMP stack that hosts the website www.foobar.com,and a user wanting to access this website.

When the user try to acces the website, the browser sends an HTTP request to the web server. The DNS translates the domain name into the IP address of the server. The web server handles static content and directs dynamic requests to the application server. The application server processes dynamic requests, runs the application code and interacts with the database. The application file contain the website's source code(HTML, CSS, Javascript scripts). The database stores the data used by the website.

1.Specifics about the infrastructure.
Server: It is a computer system or software that hosts all the components of tha web infrastructure. It provides functionality and services to clients(other computers) over a network. It is often located in a data center. One of the fundamental components of a server is its operating system (OS), which is software that manages computer hardware and provides services for running applications and processing tasks

Role of the domain name: It points to the server's IP address and allow users to acces the website with a human-readable alias instead of the IP address.

Type of DNS record wwww: configured as an A record in DNS (Domain Name System) because it resolves directly to an IPv4 address. A records map hostnames (e.g., www) to IP addresses, allowing users to access websites using domain names instead of numerical IP addresses.

Role of the web server(Nginx): Handles HTTP requests from user's browsers, routes the requests to the components generated by the application server, and handles static content delivery(serves web pages).

Role of the application server:It runs the application code of the website(PHP, Python etc...) and processes dynamic requests, generates dynamic content served by the web server.

Role of the database(MySQL): stores the data used by the website and ensures data integrity.

Communication between server and user's computer:When a server communicates over a network, it typically uses the TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol). when the userrequests a web page, the browser sends an HTTP(Hypertext Transfer Protocol) request to the server, which processes the request and sends an HTTP response with the content.

2.Infrastructure issues
SPOF Single Point of Failure: All the components are hosted on a single server, which means that any malfunction in any of the components would cause the entire system failure. to avoid this, we should add redundancy and a load balancer to distribute traffic across multiple servers.

The web server needs to be restarted when maintenance tasks(as updating the website's codebase, updating serer configurations) that involve changes to the server configuration are performed, in order to apply the changes. When the web server is restarted, the website is unavailable to user's, which results in downtime for user's.

Limited scalability: This infrastructure won't be able to handle an increase of the incomming traffic.This could cause downtime during peak periods.
