2. Secured and monitored web infrastructure

https://imgur.com/a/0rQLrcl

This represents a three server infrastructure with firewalls to provide security, HTTPS encryption and a monitoring tool(Data collector).

1.Specifics about the infrastructure:

Firewalls: They control and monitor, and filters incoming and outgoing network traffic in order to provide security, avoid unauthorized access, security threats and they ensure compliance with security policies.

SSL certificate for HTTPS: HTTPS encryption allows encryption of the data between the user and the website, in order to enseru confidentiality.

Monitoring: It optimizes the performance by tracking performance and availability of the infrastructure. It collects and analyzes data, sending data from each server to a centralized monitoring service. In a monitoring setup, the process typically involves a monitoring client, also known as an agent or collector, collecting data from various sources within the infrastructure and sending it to the monitoring system for analysis and visualization.  monitoring is configured  to collect web server data and trigger an alert if the Queries Per Second (QPS) metric exceeds a predefined threshold

Monitoring Web Server QPS: QPS are Queries per Second, the monitoring tools can analyse the frequency of incoming HTTPS request, and use this data to improve performance.

2. Issues with the infrastructure

SPOF: The load balancer is a SPOF, if it fails, it can result in the entire system failure, affecting the availability of the website.

Terminating SSL at the load balancer level: Potential security risk because the incoming traffic is decrypted, it's transmitted in cleartext to backend servers. This lead to potential threats exposing sensitive data.

Only one MySQL server capable of accepting writes: this causes a Single point of failure, because only one MySQL server is capable of accepting writes.

Having servers with all the same components: Using servers with identical components (database, web server, and application server) may pose a challenge due to variations in resource utilization among them. For example, the demand for database servers may differ from that of application servers.
